# Resegregation Study
This is the beginning of a study on school resegregation in Alabama. In Particular, we focus on measuring public and private enrollment outcomes as a result of desegregation court orders being lifted.

## A Brief History of School Segregation, Desegregation, and Resegregation in Alabama
Nearly sixty year after Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U.S. 537 (1896), Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, 347 U.S.483 (1954), overturned the doctrine of "seperate, but equal", and consequently pushed the United States toward integration of its public facilities. However, it was not for over a decade later that schools in the South found themselves being forced to integrate their public schools. Students of color that still attended segregated schools began suing school districts (with the backing of groups such as the NAACP) in an effort to force integration. Eventually, these cases (e.g. Stout v. Jefferson County Board of Education (1965) and Lee v. Macon County Board of Education (1967)) led to desegregation court orders, thus mandating that the school district in question begin integrating its public schools. Commonly achieved by merging schools and busing students in from a wider range of neighbordhoods, school districts were bound by the court to achieve "unitary status" (i.e. a single, rather than segregated school system). 

At the same time, in an attempt to circumvent integration the South saw a rise in private schools catered to wealthy white families, commonly referred to as "segregation academies". However, while these privates remained segregated the publics were becoming integrated as a result of the court orders. This system remained in place for the next thirty years, until school districts began to fully achieve unitary status, at which point the district could have the desegregation court order removed. While the schools must show that they have met and are in compliance with the six Green factors (student assignment, faculty assignment, staff assignment, transportation, extracurricular activities, and facilities), once the court desegregation order is lifted the school districts behave with a larger degree of freedom. This study looks at how the public schools behave once the desegregation order has been lifted, how residents react, and how public and private enrollment changes as a result. The main area of focus is how to properly measure segregation while taking into account yearly variations in private enrollment and school boundaries, which otherwise convolute segregation measures.

## Data
The private and public school data used in this study was obtained from the National Center for Education Statistics via the Private School Universe Survey (PSS) and Common Core of Data respectively.. The data on school desegregation orders was obtained from ProPublica, Sean Reardon, and the United States Commission on Civil Rights.
# Resegregation
